[DX-1001] Improve Helm Chart Quickstart (#4026)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/deployment-and-operations/tyk-self-managed/deployment-lifecycle/installations/kubernetes/tyk-helm-tyk-stack.md

{{< /note >}}

<hr/>

## Quick Start Guides
The following guides provide instructions to install Redis, PostgreSQL/MongoDB, and Tyk stack with default configurations. It is intended for quick start only. For production, you should install and configure Redis and MongoDB / PostgreSQL separately.

{{< tabs_start >}}

{{< tab_start "Quick Start with PostgreSQL" >}}

The following quick start guide explains how to use the Tyk Stack Helm chart to configure a Dashboard that includes:
- Redis for key storage
- PostgreSQL for app config
- Tyk Pump to send analytics to PostgreSQL. It also opens a metrics endpoint where Prometheus (if available) can scrape from.

At the end of this quickstart Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

**1. Setup required credentials**

First, you need to provide Tyk license, admin email and password, and API keys. We recommend to store them in secrets.

```bash
NAMESPACE=tyk

> 

Reviewer: This space only exists in the "PostgreSQL" tab but not in the MongoDB one. I would either delete it here or added in the other one.

Reviewer: Looks perfect thank you @caroltyk and @dcs3spp

> 

Reviewer: This space exists in the PostgreSQL tab but not in the MongoDB one. For consistency would remove this one or added in the other section.

Author: I've added extra space in MongoDB section.

* [Redis](https://tyk.io/docs/tyk-oss/ce-helm-chart/#recommended-via-bitnami-chart) should already be installed or accessible by the gateway.
* [MongoDB](https://www.mongodb.com) or [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org) should already be installed or accessible by the gateway.

## Quick Start Guides
The following guides provide instructions to install Redis, PostgreSQL/MongoDB, and Tyk stack with default configurations. It is intended for quick start only. For production, you should install and configure Redis and MongoDB / PostgreSQL separately.

> {{< tabs_start >}}

Reviewer 2: Could we move out each tab into a separate page maybe in a future iteration?

{{< tab_start "Quick Start with PostgreSQL" >}}

The following quick start guide explains how to use the Tyk Stack Helm chart to configure a Dashboard that includes:
- Redis for key storage
- PostgreSQL for app config

> - Tyk Pump to send analytics to PostgreSQL and Prometheus

Reviewer: If I am not mistaken, we won't be installing Prometheus with tyk-stack. This could be misleading for users since they may understand that it is needed for Tyk to run.

Author: ```suggestion
- Tyk Pump to send analytics to PostgreSQL. It also opens a metrics endpoint where Prometheus (if available) can scrape from.
```

  --set global.postgres.connectionStringSecret.keyName=postgresUrl
```

Now Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

Keep reading to learn about other configuration options included in the Helm Chart.

{{< tab_end >}}

> {{< tab_start "Quick Start with MongoDB" >}}

Reviewer: Add a note mentioning that if MongoDB is chosen as dependency then Ent Dev Portal cannot be installed in the Quickstart since it would need a Postgres.

The following quick start guide explains how to use the Tyk Stack Helm chart to configure a Dashboard that includes:
- Redis for key storage
- MongoDB for app config

> - Tyk Pump to send analytics to MongoDB and Prometheus

Reviewer: Same comment as previous one. Prometheus isn't installed with Tyk-Stack, this could be misleading

Author: ```suggestion
- Tyk Pump to send analytics to MongoDB. It also opens a metrics endpoint where Prometheus (if available) can scrape from.
```

  --set tyk-pump.pump.backend='{prometheus,mongo}' 
```

Now Tyk Dashboard should be accessible through service `dashboard-svc-tyk-tyk-dashboard` at port `3000`. You can login to Dashboard using the admin email and password to start managing APIs. Tyk Gateway will be accessible through service `gateway-svc-tyk-tyk-gateway.tyk.svc` at port `8080`.

Keep reading to learn about other configuration options included in the Helm Chart.

{{< tab_end >}}
{{< tabs_end >}}

## Add Helm Repository

```bash
helm repo add tyk-helm https://helm.tyk.io/public/helm/charts/
helm repo update
```

For further documentation relating to *helm* command usage, please refer to the [helm repo](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/).

> ## Installing The Chart

Reviewer: I would keep the Quick Start section and all below in different pages. If I read fast I think the quick start isn't that quick at all...

Reviewer: You could make a single section with Chart configuration and then another one with tyk stack elements configuration.

Author: @dcs3spp There's no clear visual separation between the Quick start sections (the tabs) and the rest of the page. We need something to let users know the Quick start section has ended and the the rest is complete / comprehensive documentation.

Should we add another heading, separate them into two pages, or any other suggestions?

Reviewer 2: @caroltyk suggested in previous [review](https://github.com/TykTechnologies/tyk-docs/pull/4026#discussion_r1476276501) adding quick starts as pages. How soon does the PR need releasing?
If it is needed soon then could use <hr> HTML tag in the markdown to separate the sections.

Another consideration is if the charts pages in this PR will be deprecated since we also have the [product stack](https://deploy-preview-4076--tyk-docs.netlify.app/docs/nightly/product-stack/tyk-charts/overview/) section for Tyk Charts? For example there is:
- Windows with Helm chart
- Legacy Tyk Pro Helm chart

Should these existing pages be moved into the new product stack section for helm charts also?

Author: I think we can add a horizontal rule HTML now and release first.

We can have better solution (separate quick start pages) in the new product stack structure.

Reviewer: Love it! This more straight forward. Thank you for the fix!
